# Master_thesis_backup

This document serves as an archive of my previous master's theses completed at the University of Luxembourg and the National Research University Higher School of Economics.

1. Policy Making in a Changing World: Uncertainty Dynamics and Political Institutions
2024-08-20 | Dissertation/Thesis

   **Abstract.** In today’s policy-making landscape, decision-makers confront a multitude of challenges arising from ever-evolving uncertainties and the dynamic nature of collective decision-making processes. To address these complexities, I examine a dynamic legislative bargaining model with an infinite horizon, featuring an endogenous status quo and stochastic uncertainty. In this model, policies consist of pie divisions, where the choice of an alternative in one period influences the status quo for the next, and the size of the pie in each period follows a stochastic process. The model accommodates various voting rules that are proper, monotone, and noncollegial. Key findings include: (1) When players are short-sighted, there's no absorbing subgame perfect Nash equilibrium. (2) When players are sufficiently patient, I identify a class of pure strategy stationary Markov perfect equilibria. In these equilibria, the size principle from the Baron–Ferejohn model may fail, and avoid the rotating dictatorship noted by Kalandrakis (2004). (3) Policy stability is achievable with sufficient patient players, where increased uncertainty of the future requires even more patient players to sustain. (4) Policy persistence may come with downsides, such as persistent inefficiencies where some of the pie may be perpetually wasted or distributed among more than a minimal winning coalition. These findings provide insights into maintaining policy stability in the face of changing states. They also suggest that "patience" may explain two patterns observed in decision-making bodies: the persistence of economic policies even when their original rationale no longer applies, and the occasional emergence of reforms during times of crisis.

   **Key words:** Legislative bargaining, endogenous status quo, stochastic uncertainty, policy persistence
   

3. The Impact of Familiarity Network on Equilibrium Bidding in Auctions
2024-11-06 | Dissertation/Thesis

   **Abstract.** Information asymmetry among bidders is prevalent across various auction formats, whether implicit or explicit. I employ familiarity networks to investigate a semi-perfect information auction framework characterized by information asymmetry, ex ante learning, and arbitrary network structures. In this model, risk-neutral bidders compete for the allocation of a good by submitting sealed bids according to specified allocation rules (first- or second-price), where each bidder possesses local knowledge about a subset of others' values, determined by the underlying network structure. Key findings include: (1) In second-price auctions, truthful-telling (i.e., bidding one’s true valuation) constitutes an equilibrium for any structure of the familiarity network. In first-price, a pure strategy equilibrium exists, where the front-runner (i.e., the bidder with the highest valuation within her familiarity set) bids between the second-highest valuation and her own, with non-unique equilibria in both formats. (2) The Revenue Equivalence Theorem fails under mild assumptions; second-price auctions are efficient, while first-price auctions yield lower expected revenue with partial local information. (3) Bidders gain more surplus in first-price, but this leads to inefficient allocations with positive probability. (4) In first-price, expected revenue is nonmonotonic as bidders’ familiarity increases; it initially decreases with partial information but increases as bidders gain full information. (5) Under mild regularity conditions, increasing bidders intensifies competition in first-price auctions, though the impact of network skewness is nonmonotonic. These results provide insights into the equity-efficiency tradeoff in mechanism design, and is applicable in contexts like emissions trading, enterprise competition, and online bidding algorithms.

   **Key words:** first-price auction, second-price auction, familiarity network, information asymmetry, equity-efficiency tradeoff
